[docs] Add _cron extension (#22482)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgcron.md

---
title: pg_cron extension
headerTitle: pg_cron extension
linkTitle: pg_cron
description: Using the pg_cron extension in YugabyteDB
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: extension-pgcron
    parent: pg-extensions
    weight: 20
type: docs
---

> The [pg_cron](https://github.com/citusdata/pg_cron) extension provides a simple cron-based job scheduler that runs inside the database. It uses the same syntax as regular cron, but it allows you to schedule YSQL commands directly from the database. You can also use '[1-59] seconds' to schedule a job based on an interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [pg_cron](https://github.com/citusdata/pg_cron) extension provides a basic cron-based job scheduler that runs inside the database. It uses the same syntax as regular cron, but it allows you to schedule YSQL commands directly from the database. You can also use '[1-59] seconds' to schedule a job based on an interval.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Enable pg_cron
```

> To enable the extension:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This feature is {{<badge/tp>}}. Use the `enable_pg_cron` flag to enable the feature. This is a preview flag so you will have to first add it to `allowed_preview_flags_csv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is {{<badge/tp>}}. Use the `enable_pg_cron` flag to enable the feature. As it is a preview flag, you have to first add it to `allowed_preview_flags_csv`.
```

Reviewer: Can you provide the command to add it to "allowed_preview_flags_csv" ? For example, we have it on the connection manager page in the How to use section - https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/explore/going-beyond-sql/connection-mgr-ysql/#how-to-use

> By default pg_cron will run on the `yugabyte` database. You can change this by setting `ysql_cron_database_name` to your desired database name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, pg_cron will run on the `yugabyte` database. You can change this by setting `ysql_cron_database_name` to your desired database name.
```

> Both flags require restart of the yb process in order to take effect. 

Reviewer: unclear what "yb process" is ..can you elaborate?

> Once the flags have been set run the following command on the cron database. You will need superuser privileges. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the flags are set, run the following command on the cron database with superuser privileges. 
```

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION pg_cron;
```

> For more information on how to schedule jobs refer to the [pg_cron readme](https://github.com/citusdata/pg_cron/readme.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how to schedule jobs refer to the [pg_cron readme](https://github.com/citusdata/pg_cron/)
```

Reviewer: readme link didn't work.
